[MUSIC]
Hey there, my name is James Larmer.
I'm part of PWC's Global Analytical
leadership team.
As Alex mentions, we're going to explore
using Excel as a tool for analysis and
problem solving.
Maybe just starting out with Excel or
perhaps you're a statistician, or
a mathematician and work with SAS,
or Python, or MATLAB.
Or you're extracting insights using Azure,
AWS, Vertica, or Aster.
Or maybe you're building
a financial model from scratch,
at some point
you'll turn to Excel to help you and
your team make better decisions.
What we want to do over this
course is to set a foundation
that will help you use
Excel more effectively, and
to do so in a way that makes
you a pleasure to work with.
Let's start with a few principles that we
encourage you to keep in mind throughout
this course and
your ongoing work with Excel.
We like to say that
effective work in Excel
should always include a bias
towards elegant simplicity.
To achieve this, we need to keep in
mind the following five concepts.
Simplicity, that building data sets and
analysis tools as simply possible,
decreases the chance of errors and
allows those unfamiliar with the model to
easily understand scenarios and results.
Traceability, so
that those who do not help build your
model will be able to understand where
the data is coming from with easily
traceable dependents and precedents.
Consistency, make sure that all the data
is in the same denomination for
example, formatting,
those kinds of things,
so that it makes the overall
model easier to understand.
Adaptability, that allows for quick and
accurate changes to assumptions and
variables without significant
re-tooling of formulas.
And finally, ease of use,
by creating well thought out and
documented models, you facilitate the use
of the tools you built and allow for
transfer of ownership without the need for
a steep learning curve.
To help us achieve this
elegant simplicity,
we have a set of guiding principles
that I think you'll find useful.
By the way, a reading assignment will be
available in your course materials that
gives greater detail but
here's a quick overview.
Principle one, remember that
Excel is a deliverable used to
communicate your findings,
I call it being client ready.
Take the time to layout your
thought process and analysis.
Simple things like headers, sources, and
footnotes will help you
focus your analysis.
Second, begin with the end in mind.
The few minutes you take
outlining your analysis and
creating a story board can greatly
enhance your work and its impact.
Third, start with a template.
The chances are you're doing a lot
of the same simple tasks over and
over, removing grid lines,
placing and formatting headers.
Setting up print areas, footers,
headers, those kinds of things.
More advanced users may have developed
an MPV model or some other tool.
Why not create a template once and
give yourself a jumpstart for
your next assignment?
Fourth, separate the data.
Each data table you work with or
have downloaded should go in
its own separate worksheet.
The rest of your analysis simply takes
advantage of Excel's powerful functions
and formulas to extract just
what you need when you need it.
Number five, highlight and
limit any hard coding.
Whenever possible utilize formulas,
in fact, one of the most powerful features
of Excel are its formulas and functions,
and we will show you some of
our favorites in this course.
But if you do need to enter a hard number,
an assumption about growth rates for
example, shade your inputs a distinct
color to make them stand out.
Now, my favorite color is blue,
so chances are if you get a workbook
from me you'll see lots of blue.
Number six, for large complex formulas,
think about breaking it down.
There's no need in Excel to solve
an entire problem with one formula.
In fact, if you take the time and
space to build up your own analysis
you will often get to a better result.
Number seven, once your work is done,
do a thorough review.
It's not uncommon for
errors to occur but they can be
minimized by double-checking your work.
One useful technique is to
calculate an important number in
two different ways to make
sure your analysis is correct.
Principle 8, ask for help or look online.
If you find something is
taking too long to complete,
chances are there is a better way.
Seek out the Excel gurus in your network
or office or search for a thread.
There is likely a blog or a video
out there that will help you quickly
figure out the syntax for a formula or
help you construct your analysis.
Finally, our 9th principle,
use the keyboard.
We like to encourage our analysts to
throw out the mouse and use shortcuts.
There are dozens of keyboard shortcuts.
Taking the time to learn them now will
dramatically reduce the time it takes for
you to work in Excel.
We'll share some of those in
the materials for this course.
That was a high level overview
of the principles but
you're going to see it all in
detail in the reading assignment.
Make sure you take the time to
read through the information.
You may find it helpful to download
the reading for future reference.
So that's our introduction to
some basic concepts to keep in
mind as you learn about and
begin to work with Excel.
I'll be back at the beginning of
each week to help start you off.
I'll then hand you off to one
of my colleagues who'll give you
detailed instructions and
a chance to practice what you've learned.
Thanks for joining us.
[MUSIC]